# DS8008FinalProject
Repository is for a school replication project of the following research paper: https://aclanthology.org/2025.acl-long.1182.pdf 
The main task problem of the paper is to effectively perform classification of news articles as either fake or real news. The main problem encountered is that accuracy is low because of a lack of available fake news for training compared to real news. To solve this problem the project and this paper augment the available training data of fake news to improve the overall accuracy and then use reinforced learning methods to calculate the optimal amount of augmentation that should be done.

Repo structure is as follows:
Main folder: Data, src and DS8008FinalProject.ipynb

The jupyter notebook is the main report of the study itself, it runs a LSTM classification model created by us for classifying fake/real news using all available fake/real news articles in Data/train and then displays an accuracy. It then uses RL to retrain the classifier with an optimal amount of added augmented data of fake news, generated by us based on the original ones collected, and then shows how the accuracy of the model can be imrpoved using only data augmentation and the optimal amount of augmentation can be computed using RL.

Data is structured as: Data/train
                           /test
                           /src
train -> Has 3 folders, one contains all real news articles from the internet, another real fake news articles from the internet and the last contains artificially generated fake news articles, created based on the real fake news articles in the train folder.
test -> Has 2 folders, 400 articles each, of real fake and real news articles from the internet. These are exclusively used for classifier testing and are not included in data augmentation.
src -> Original datasets from the internet that articles are extracted from. Only has the GossipCop dataset from kaggle, which has ~20k total URL links to fake/real articles off the internet published by verified news sources. Dataset is open source and available on Kaggle here: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/akshaynarayananb/gossipcop?resource=download Around 40% of all links are no longer available and the articles have been taking down since over the years for various reasons.

src, contains various supporting python scripts used in the project.
DownloadFakeNewsGossipCop.py -> Scrapes verified fake news articles from the internet using URLs to them in the GossipCop dataset saves to Data/train/Fake
DownloadRealNewsGossipCop.py -> Scrapes verified real news articles from the internet using URLs to them in the GossipCop dataset saves to Data/train/Real
GenerateFakeNews.py -> Takes real fake articles from Data/Train/Fake and performs NER and LDA to extract people and topics to use as writing prompts for LLAMA 3 LLM model to generate more fake news in a similar style. Saves them to Data/train/GenratedFake
TrainAndEvaluateClassifier.py -> LSTM classifier model script that is ran to classify the articles in the dataset as fake/real. Is called on by the main jupyter notebook file and given inputs as to how many articles to use for training e.t.c.